<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:8.0pt;margin-left:0in;line-height:107%;font-size:15px;font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;'><span style='font-size:16px;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;'>First, enter the best estimate of 1) the <u>year</u> the release first stated; 2) the <u>total mass&nbsp;</u>of the contaminant that was released to the source zone; and 3) the contaminant <u>starting concentration</u> in groundwater the year the release first started in Group 5.&nbsp;</span></p>
  <p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:8.0pt;margin-left:0in;line-height:107%;font-size:15px;font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;'><span style='font-size:16px;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;'>Next perform a <em>temporal calibration to&nbsp;</em>the data for the monitoring well(s) nearest the source and try to match the concentration of the first few years of monitoring data obtained from this well(s). The starting concentration and/or the source mass may need to be manipulated to match the source monitoring well data. Then adjust the source mass and the starting concentration to try to track the temporal change in this well(s) over time (e.g., from the first monitoring event to the most recent sampling event). Note the modeling calibration process is generally not something that achieves &plusmn; 20% match between simulated and observed data because of uncertainties and simplification in the monitoring processes and because of variability in the sampling data (e.g., see McHugh et al., 2011, 2012). A general order of magnitude match is a more common calibration goal.</span></p>
    <p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:8.0pt;margin-left:0in;line-height:107%;font-size:15px;font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;'><span style='font-size:16px;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;'>Finally identify monitoring well(s) along the plume centerline and perform a <em>spatial calibration</em>. Run the model and compare simulated concentrations with observed concentrations in the centerline monitoring well(s) of interest for one or two key years. Adjust plume input parameters until a reasonable match between simulated and observed concentrations is achieved. Key parameters for plume calibration include the plume degradation rates (Group 6), matrix diffusion parameters (Group 4), with dispersion parameters (Group 7) being important for non-degrading or slow degrading plume constituents such as perfluoro alkyl acids (PFAAs).</span></p>