<p style='margin-top:0in;margin-right:0in;margin-bottom:8.0pt;margin-left:0in;line-height:107%;font-size:15px;font-family:"Calibri",sans-serif;'><em><span style='font-size:16px;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;'>REMChlor-MD</span></em><span style='font-size:16px;line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;'>&nbsp;has the following assumptions and limitations (Farhat et al., 2018):&nbsp;</span></p>
  <ul>
  <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>Assumes the user is familiar with basic groundwater transport and mass balance concepts.</span></li>
    <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>Assumes a homogeneous and constant groundwater velocity field with flow in only one direction.</span></li>
      <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>The contaminant source mass balance assumes that the contaminant discharge is a power function of the remaining contaminant mass using an exponent &Gamma; (gamma). As a simplistic model of a complicated heterogeneous multiphase transport system, the best value of gamma for a given site will be subject to a range of uncertainty. For this reason, it is probably a good idea to run the model with a range of gamma values.</span></li>
        <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>The model assumes that biodegradation reactions in the plume can be described by first order decay reactions. Biogeochemical conditions that control these reactions may not be well represented by first order reactions therefore, there is considerable uncertainty in values of field scale decay rates.</span></li>
          <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>First order decay rates are a function of time and distance from the source (x), but they do not depend on the y or z coordinates. This means that a specified reaction zone will extend over the entire model domain in the y and z directions.</span></li>
            <li><span style='line-height:107%;font-family:"Arial",sans-serif;font-size:16px;'>In the transmissive zone, the model uses a conventional advection-dispersion formulation. However, in the absence of matrix diffusion, this may not accurately represent the physical process at a site (e.g., see Hadley and Newell, 2014). There is a developing conceptual model that suggests that dispersion processes are much weaker than is commonly simulated, and that lower dispersion coefficients should be used in conventional advection dispersion models. By applying this model to a transmissive zone that only occupies part of the overall volume, and by including matrix diffusion, the transport can better fit the newer conceptual model.</span></li>
              </ul>